1. `#include <stdio.h>` is a header file - written in c - to iclude this library into my code so I can use stuff like `printf()`.
2. compiling is acctually a 4 steps process:
    1. *preproccessing:* which include the needed libraries - headers - code that is needed for our file.
    2. *compiling:* translating our source code into assemply code which is a language that the cpu understands.
    3. *assempling:* is to translate that assemply code to the zeros and ones that the computer understands.
    4. *linking:* is to compine our source code with the headers' code into zeros and ones.
3. we can print the asci of a character by passing it as an integer to `printf`, `char c1 = 'i'`, `printf("%i", c1);` will print the asci of the i character.
4. to typecast a variabe we refix it with `(other_type)`, so to typecast a char to an int we do `(int) char_variable_name` and we will change it to be an integer.
5. we can use `const` before the type of a variable when declearing it to make it a constant
6. we can also put constants outside of the main functins just under the headers.
7. the convension is to use all capital letters for constant variables.
8. when doing a math operation on differnt 2 types, the less powerfull type will be upcasted to the more powerfull type.

9. *ARRAYS:*
    
    1. the syntax of arrays: `type array_name[number_of_items]`, so for example: `int scores[3];`
    2. to add something to an array we use `array_naem[position_in_array] = what_to_add`, so for example: `scores[0] = 3;`
    3. the number when declearing a new array in `[]` is for the number of items inside not for the indexes inside, so `score[3]` will have `score[0]` ,`score[1]` and `score[2]`.
    4. arrays do not remember their length so we have to calculate it and store it somewhere
    5. in a string we can access its character just like an array, so if we have a string called `string`  and assigned to `hi!` we can access the h by `string[0]`.
    6. in a string, the array is a little special as we don't know how many character it might be, so if we literally told the computer to give us a string and called it by its name it will only give us the first character of the string. So, programmers decided that to denoate the end of a string we use a null character `\0` to tell the computer here where the string ends.
    7. another explanation of the above: if we have a string called `string` and assigned it `hi!` then it is gonna have these character inside the array of chars: `string[0]` = `h`, `string[1]` = `i`, `string[2]` = `!` and `string[3]` = `\0`. so the size of any sting is acctually the string length + 1.
    8. we can have a 2 dimensional array - aka array within array - and we can access the insider array like this `array[position_in_first_array][position_in_second_array]`, so if we have an array of strings and we want to print out the second name' second's character we do like this: `string[1][1];`.
    9. to iterate in a string we loop until the `string[n] = '\0'`.


10. in a for loop if we want to call a function to get a value that is not gooing to change then we can initialize it within the first block of code in the for loop:
    `for (int i =0, n = strlen(someStinrg; i < n; i++)`
11. to minibulate strings and use functions like `strlen()` we need to include `<string.h>`. 
12. instead of `void` in `int main(void)` we can use `int main(int argc, string argv[])` to be used so we can pass arguments to the main function when running it.
13. after compiling the program we can pass it arguments after calling the program name.
14. to access the arguments we first need to make sure that the arguments are more than one.
15. to access the first argument after the app name we use `argv[1]`.
16. `int argc` stand for command line argument count, and `string argv[]` stands for argument vecotrs - aka options or strings - .
17. the reason we use `argv[1]` to access command line argument is because the first argument is acctually the program name.
18. we can make sure that the user passed a command line argument like this: `if (argc != 2) `if we expect one argument or `if (argc < 2)` if we expect 1 or more arguments and so on and so furth.

